### ass2

We can use syntactic rules to break a sentence into its component parts and analyse their relationship. A parser is thus a program that uses a CFG to parse a sentence or a program (Assignment 3). In particular, it constructs its leftmost or rightmost derivation, or builds the parse tree for the sentence.

A recogniser is a parser that checks only the syntax (without having to build the parse tree). It outputs YES if the program is legal and NO otherwise (Assignment 2).

### Ambiguity

1. By the time he was admitted, his rapid heart had stopped, and he was feeling better.
2. Patient has chest pain if she lies on her left side for over a year.
3. On the second day the knee was better and on the third day it had completely disappeared.
4. The patient was tearful and crying constantly. She also appears to be depressed.
5. Discharge status: Alive but without permission. The patient will need disposition, and therefore we will get Dr. Blank to dispose of him.

### Difference between CFG and RE

A language is said to be a regular language if it is generated by a regular grammar. A grammar is said to be regular if it's either right-linear or left-linear.
Specifically, a grammar  G <N, Σ ,P, S> is said to be right-linear if each of its production rules is either of the form A -> xB or of the form A -> x, where A and B are non terminal symbols in N and x is a string of terminal symbols in
Σ*. Similarly, it is left-linear if each of its production rules is either of the form A -> Bx or of the form A -> x, where A and B are non terminal symbols in N and x is a string of terminal symbols in Σ*.

Context Free grammers don't enforce this and are thus ambigious. In addition because they can be stuff like `aBaC` they need to be able to maintain a stack of what they were previously expanding. These can not be expressed as FSA.

Context free grammar is one of the ways we can define a languages syntax. It's not as powerful as more complex context-sensitive grammars and phrase-structure grammars but is Simple, widely used, and sufficient for most purposes.

You can also define a languages grammar via a Regular grammars (i.e., regular expressions) but without the extra info defined in a CFG they are much less powerful, limited to smaller less robust languages.

### phrase-structure grammars

These are grammars defined by Phrase structure rules which are transformations that attempt to break natural language down into both lexical categories (parts of speech) and phrasal categories.

### Building a expression evaluator

```
⟨expr⟩ → ⟨expr⟩ + ⟨term⟩
		| ⟨expr⟩ − ⟨term⟩
		| ⟨term⟩
⟨term⟩ → ⟨term⟩ ∗ ⟨factor⟩
		| ⟨term⟩/⟨factor⟩
		| ⟨factor⟩
⟨factor⟩ → ( ⟨expr⟩ )
		|ID
		| INT    //Note:integer numbers not the type
```
